## Author
Name - Luke Piper
Student ID - 3648114
Email - piplu394@student.otago.ac.nz

## COSC326 Etude 1 - Dates
Dates is a program which reads dates inputted by a user and validates whether or not a date is valid between the years 1753 and 3000 (inclusive). The program first uses a scanner in the main to grab the inputs of dates from the user. From there the scanner validates the authenticity of the date by calling the isValidDate method, this method tests a) that the date is a real date from the years 1753 to 3000, b) the date is written in the correct format from the Etudes formatting specifications. The program will return a valid date with the format dd first 3 letters of month yyyy e.g. 01 Jan 2023. An invalid date will return the input - INVALID, and an error message on the next line.
e.g.
03 Jun 3004 - INVALID
Year is out of range

## Formatting specifications
All inputs are assumed to be in day month year order.

Day Format - dd or d or 0d

Month Format - mm or m or 0m or the first three letters of the month name (all in the same case, or with the first letter upper-case)

Year Format - yy or yyyy

Separator Format - <space> or - or /

Extra formatting - 
1. 29th of February is only considered a valid date in leap years.
2. If the year is written with only two digits, the date lies between 1950 and 2049, so 65 means 1965 and 42 means 2042.

## How to run
To run this program you can either click run/debug and you can manually enter in values to the IDE's terminal. Or you can call a test case file by running the command in the src terminal - `java Date.java < 'file you want to test'`.

## Testing
For testing originally, I completed manual tests from files. I quickly learnt this is a slow process and not very robust. To improve the robustness of my code, I create the ValidTests.java file. This file will generate every valid date from the years 1753 to 3000 to a file, with all formats of possible entries covered. To run this program to output in a file, inside the VS Code terminal inside this program's src folder you can run the command - `java ValidTests.java > 'file you want to print to'`. This will generate a file which you can then run through the Date.java by running the command in terminal - `java Date.java < 'file you printed to before'`.

Testing for invalid inputs was more difficult due to the infinite amount of possibilities a user could input that are invalid. For this, I manually create invalid tests (some generated by ChatGPT to save time).

The test case files are named simply validTests.txt for valid inputs, invalidTests.txt for invalid inputs.
